Sophia the Inventor

Sophia had high hopes for the day. First, she'd coax the dragon Steve into flying her across the marshes and up onto the rocky cliffs to the west. He'd be grumpy at first, but she could always win him over with a few scratches behind the ears and the smell of black coffee. Once he'd gotten her up to the cliffs, there would be the sunrise, which is a very magical thing. If they were lucky, the light refracted through the low atmosphere would catch in some of the great living manifestations of the wind that lived there, and Sophia would call to them to let them know they had an audience, and there would be a fiery dance across the sea.
	After the sunrise, they would fly back down to her little hill, and Steve would tell her goodbye and have a wonderful day and to come bother him anytime because he only seemed surly in the mornings and actually was always very happy to see her. Then, she would figure out what she was going to make that day.
	Sophia loved inventing things. Her little house inside the hill was actually connected to a vast network of caverns linked by convenient, Sophia-sized tunnels. Some of them, of course, had been made so with one of her early inventions, the Tunnel-Widener. She used these caverns as little shops and studios in which to work on her different projects. She was very lucky to have those caverns, because each one let her work on a different project and leave everything just so. As things were always just as she'd left them, she could pick up where she'd left off. Each cavern had it's own place in her mind and, once she'd invented a labeling system, she didn't mix them, or the construction of the half-inventions they contained, up.
	She first thought of continuing work on her cloud whitener, which would remove unwanted storms. She had decided that she must figure out how to make sure the rain still added up over the course of the year, and wouldn't complete the invention until she'd added that feature, or she might be tempted to whiten too many clouds and so parch the grass and flowers and trees of the rolling hills around her. They were her friends, and she didn't want them to be thirsty. As Sophia remembered how stuck she was with that particular problem, she let her mind wander through the tunnels again.
	Next, she thought of the Castle-bot. She liked her little hill, but it would be fun to have a castle to go visit where she could host parties with jousting and fizzy drinks and invite all of the the dinasaur-folk that lived in the hills. A castle seemed to big for her to build by herself, though, so she'd been designing a robot that would quarry the stone and move it into place for her. The main problem was programming in all of the little things to not do: how to not fall into the water, how not to carry so much stone it tipped over, how to not build itself into a door-less room, and so on.