Sophia had figured out how to slip between worlds. Sophie had done so. Sophie was in prison.

She was explaining this to her cell-mate, a flexible lattice of millions of brilliant little white points that assumed a blurred human form to better relate with her. She had decided that 'it' was a 'he', and called him 'Bob'.

"So," she said, "For a while we - human scientists, that is - thought that there were several things in the universe. We thought that things were made of earth, wind, water, and fire for a time, but that fell through. It turned out that there were smaller bits that made those thing up. Then we spent some time thinking that the world was made of little balls called atoms, but that didn't work either, 'cause there were smaller bits in the atoms. There were all kinds of little balls to look at, and it turned out that they only looked like balls sometimes. Anyway, eventually we figured out that there's only two things in the universe, but that they have some pretty interesting rules about how they fit together."
	"Ah," said Bob. "You discovered the 'bit', as I believe you call it."
	"Sort of," replied Sophie, leaning back against the frozen-matter screen that had been given the appearance of iron bars by the warden of the prison. "We'd actually discovered those quite independantly a while earlier, and had built increasing complex computers that worked on them. It took us a while to sort out that the simplest way of expressing things was the way it is down at the bottom of space and time though. But we did get it eventually." She leaned forward, her blue eyes brightening. "Anyway, we figured out that the universe was a computer - or indistinguishable from a computer from the inside, anyway - and got to thinking. Maybe there were more universes, with different rules, but pretty much computers as well? Our heads are like little computers, and so they're like little universes too! I can think up some people and imagine them having a conversation, and that's real. I can imagine them in there talking, and I'm even imagining how they feel about it, and that's all actually happening inside my head. Of course, I stop thinking about them and they vanish, so the universe inside my head isn't a very stable place to live. But I'll probably remember them, and I can bring them back, so they have some hope."
	"Yes," said Bob, shimmering a bit, "You realized that there is a quality of 'anything-ness' when the right structures exist."
	"Yep!" she replied. "We call it universality. Universes are universal, meaning you can simulate one universe in any of the other universes, provided you have enough space. I mean, I couldn't very well run the whole of the human's home universe on a little computer built within that universe - it's already inside of it, and so couldn't possibly fit the whole thing. It would even have to include itself in the simulation, which would then have to be simulating the whole universe including itself, and so on. No way you're going to fit something inside itself without a lot of strange infinities going on. And we've decided that any sort of infinity is probably silly, though there might be one of them. As soon as you have too many, it gets too hard to count things. So we thought there might be a bigger one tha-"
	"Speaking of counting," interrupted Bob, "The guard is sufficient paces away to try again."
