You begin the game on an orbiting Prison Colony. It's not revealed why you're there. Maybe an image/animation of you standing with a phone for a long time, saying nothing, then you slumped against the wall in a cell. A man walks by your cell, lets some pills clatter to the floor in front of you, says "These will help you escape." You take the pills.

You wake the next day, and there is a woman in your cell. She explains that she is an embodiment of information that only you can see, manifested from a neural structure in fractal modifications to your cells that allow them to interact with the world at the quantum scale. She instructs you on how to use your new-found gravity powers to escape the prison. She mentions that you'll need to periodically eat heavy metals now.

You bust out of your cell. You fuck up a guard. You find an open hatch into the bowels of the ship's life-support systems. 

Climb down a long ladder. You smash some patrol drones in the dark underbelly of the ship, and get to an escape pod. Pod parachutes down to the planet surface, swaying slightly, and you see a bad-ass vista. Tutorial is over.

You land in an encampment of soldiers, who shoot you once in the leg in surprise. You kill them. There are some obvious insignia and whatnot around indicating that they are the government (refers back to stuff in the prison colony).

You travel over land battling soldiers and maybe hostile environmental things like carnivorous plants. The world gradually changes, growing crazy and nonsensical. Through discussions with your female companion hallucination, you determine that you are beginning to exist simultaneously in many universes through a 'linking dimension' that allows them to affect each other. You are perceiving many simultaneous universes that don't quite match up. Occasionally, people seem to know who you are before you meet them.

After a while of battling and learning about the regime and the resistance and whatnot through combat and occasional interactions with people, you find a quiet level with nothing bad in it. Your hallucination expresses that she cares about you and that she thinks you should leave things alone, get away, and try not to fight with anyone. Just stay here for a while. You don't.

You reach a central city. As you go through the city, many people seem to know who you are, and cheer for you. You fight your way to a council room of some kind, where they seem to expect you to be friendly to them. Confusion. The pills were a plant, you were held in a rebel prison. You tell them that the facility was clearly a government facility. You are interrupted as someone else comes into the room.

You fight another person with gravity powers. Regardless of who kills who, you both die.

You end up in whiteness. It is revealed that you fought a version of yourself from another universe that was too far desynchronized in the linking dimension to merge with yourself. That version of you did indeed side with the government. Now, all versions of you have collapsed inward and only exist in the dimension between universes.

Then, you are resurrected by your followers from all of the worlds. They have united to build huge antennas that retrieve you from the linking dimension simultaneously. You are synchronized across all worlds, and vastly more powerful.

You have become the trans-dimensional, archetypal struggle for change. You destroy the universe and cause it to restart?
