The sun will rise, and when it does,
the world will dance. We'll sing because
a thought was perched where someone dreamed,
and woken up, the faces gleamed

in moonlight cast through love. The past
makes shadows flicker, holding fast
onto the feet who stand their ground,
and laugh, as voices come unbound.

To pass the time, we split the day
up in to parts. Our work and play,
divided by a thinking blade,
grew apart. Then meaning frayed

as strands were strained by winds that framed
a different way to live. We blamed
the night, but dusk is love and death.
Once thrown below a murmured breath

of air we waited for a chance
to build a future, and enhance
the little bits of stuff that sticks,
As people gather laying bricks,

to stop all time. A storm of weird
and wildish growth that we have feared
has been suppressed. A structure holds
the strangling trees at bay. The folds

of minds that formed in safer songs
discovered light. The rights and wrongs
were added up and found to sum
to nothing. So upon the drum

we call a blazing heartbeat out
across the void, and hoped a shout
or two might reach some ears that hear
our strains and send a sky to steer

us to the truth. But waiting for
an answer showed us even more
than we had hoped. The strength we found
by rooting down into the ground

would bring us flight, and farther sight,
and words and pictures filled the white
of unmarked pages. Life grew small.
But also large, enfolding all.

We looked and thought and looked again
at empty spaces, wondering when
the cracks would spread and what we knew
would shatter. So the tension threw

itself across the space to find
the voices that could help unwind
a confidence that might not be
aligned with what a touch might see.

And now we're here to feel the pull
of strangish stirrings, and the full-
ness of the change in how we break
up into parts has left an ache

that flips the world. But where are we?
If no one knows, perhaps we're free
to choose ourselves, and redefine
interpretations of the sign

that calls to us. A sweeping flow
of brand-new ways the world could grow
up into stronger shapes that soar
with life that's learning more and more.

But scary things will grow up too.
When rules are stripped away, the new
might sometimes be less nice than we
would hope. But careful, we'll stay free

to see the dark come though the deep.
And murky monsters may still creep
to prey upon an unwatched thought
that bubbles up when thinking's caught

within a cage of love and light.
So don't forget the grasping night.
Though passion blooms to catch the air,
forgotten depths forever stare.

So journey on! The sun might set,
but preparation for the net
that fear has set to trap the brave
will foil the plans to plot the grave

of time. When sadness breaks the day,
the sun will shine a lifeless ray
that gives no strength. Without a store
of inner fire, the burning core

will cool and stop and turn to stone.
So know it comes! Don't go alone.
Those friendly faces trace between
the empty spaces that we've seen

must always lurk in worlds whose curve
is big enough to test your nerve.
A wiser friend can guide our smiles
to currents that will flow for miles

to deeper wilds that stream arcane
through twisting glimpses of the plain
description that lies underneath
the welling up of gnashing teeth

that we have driven from the earth.
Those monuments that scream the worth
of human blood up from the sands
to shake the sky, but falling lands

us in the dirt where we will see
the burning glow of what we flee:
the end of time. Entropic death.
A bursting heart. A rattled breath.

We'll stay away from ruin and rage
and travel onward through an age
of newer tides from far-off stars,
to find new faces, earn new scars.

Let's run! Look back just to be sure
the streaking strands where moments stir
are like the ones we've seen before,
so we don't miss a fruitful shore

that's full of rainbow glassy shells
where life as been before. It wells
up from the cracks in blooming light
that scatters remnants of the night

through breathing space that churns the air
as people stream to settle there
and flee the places where their thoughts
had stripped away, exposing dots

of unwashed dreams. And lonely holes
that people find to hide their souls
so that they'll keep for someone right.
Till then, they'll keep on holding tight

in case it tries to fly away,
get lost in clouds, and find a day
that makes it brighten, glow, then burn.
Or so's the fear. It's hard to learn

the ways to walk to find the things
that once are got, a giving brings
the best of all, a moment's sight
of all the ways to make it right.

A torch that gasps, then catches, laughs.
The fiery sun, the joining halves,
The turning clocks, the stamping feet,
the chanting crowd out on the street.

A people born. They understand
themselves a force to shape the land,
the sea, the air, the moon, the stars.
The blinding strike of self that jars

them from their sleep will shake the world
and knock it loose from claws that curled
around the blue and green. The voice
that hears itself can make a choice

of how it sings the newer words.
So talk about the flight of birds,
the shape of wings, the wind that whirs.
What stuff to say! The eye defers

to pictures built inside, instead.
Then leap, full-formed, right from the head
of thoughtful thinkers smiling sly.
Our words will take us through the sky,

if we can wait. It's hard to hold
the hunger back when life is cold
and lacking things we wish were there.
There's time to hope, and time to care,

and time for friends, and in the end
the lazy wanders round the bend
might conjure up the the time we lost
it's hard sometimes, to sum the cost

when numbers fall like leaves and spin
away. We feel how long it's been
since last we saw the trees of home.
The distance reaches that we roam

to find a place will calm the mind.
The chaos leaking out to find
a balance frees the deeper parts
to hold the moment in our hearts.

Look at life! It's looking back.
Time will come and go and track
a course through tears and fears and blame
and guilt and loss. But love will frame

the painting if you know your name
and hold it high, and make a claim
to see the future, breath the air,
explore. Though things are lurking where

you'll go, you've got the skills to stop
the scary stuff, the sudden drop.
There's beauty in the fight, so go
and figure out what we don't know.

There's helping hands to guide you smile
so don't wear out - go rest a while.
The world will wait with open arms
while you recover from the harms

you can't avoid. So sleep my friend.
Then wake to watch the night-time end.
The dawn is soon, your path is clear,
your sun is rising, drawing near

the edge of Earth. So chase it down.
And on your way you'll lose your frown
amongst the clashing, crazed designs
of strange new streets in crooked lines

that formed with feet that found a way
the same as you! You'll sometimes stay
but sometimes go with tearing speed
so find a map, and learn to read

a mountain range.