Core Aesthetics: Narrative, Challenge, Sense-pleasure, exploration, Fantasy?


Anti-hero becoming apparent almost horror?

Spirituality in a chaotic universe.

Does the player believe in his companion?

Companion exists as a pattern constructed by a merger of his own nervous system and enhancements. Independant entity. Maybe a woman, maybe the temptation later. At some point she should be taken away, temporarily or permanently.

DNA is upgraded to be more baddass, quantum level interactions, cells literally different and smaller, need to eat new minerals (look in to nano-tech)

Mysterious Intro / Awesomness of world / Awesomeness of gameplay

Multiple intro hooks?

Is it good that we're even here?

call to action: In a prison. Lets get out of prison!

refusal: ??

empower: Get the pillz that empower you with quantum gravitation generation. Magical helper type appears, some kind of hallucination.

threshhold: Escape the prison with your gravity pillz

belly of the whale: Go down into the bowels of the prison colony's life-support systems to get into a special escape pod or something.

road of trials: 3 tests. Maybe you learn advanced techniques like focusing.

love: The companion and you grow close

temptation: The companion tries to draw you from your quest.

atone with supreme, act of faith:

apotheosis, ascension, boon: information

refusal of return: 

magic flight: You can literally fly now using gravity, and you use it to escape.

rescue from without: Companion?

return threshold:

Master of two worlds:

Freedome to live: 

Gravity lensing


Your neurological implants colour your picture of reality. You gradually become a weapon as familiarity dissappears. In some sense, your implant is literal belief.

A gradual change in how the world looks, explained by your companion.

In the beginning, you decide to help rebels from in jail. The rebels have been doing well, you help turn the tide and seat them.

You are trying to get to the time-travel engine, as you've heard rumor that they're going to try to send someone back in time to mess up the revolution.

In the middle, you make it to the time-travel engine and succesfully capture it along with the central palace. There is a flash. Someone escapes?

You now continue fighting as it appears the new rebels are close to retaking the castle.

Things look different because of the underlying flux in worlds, or simply hallucinations?

You have become a trans-worldy being.

You have become something of a god of change and revolution.

Time-travel via communication between worlds that have gotten out of sync. Not out of sync. Just the oscillation of conflict.

"There is no such thing as time-travel"

You kill yourself in apotheosis. Because of the linking dimension, you both die regardless of the outcome.

You go save your companion within the linking dimension of which you are now part?

You have become the oscillation of conflict. You are the trans-dimensional archytipical struggle.

You return to all realities, now a unique entity in all. The first gravity wave you release is of infinite power, and ends time, restarting the universe in the ultimate oscillation.